# This pest is called **Grasshopper**

## Treament
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
### About this pest
One of the most recognizable features of grasshoppers is the songs they make by either rubbing pegs on their back legs together or clattering their wings together while they are in flight. Some just rub their wings together, and others do not produce any sound. The short-horned grasshopper is the most concerning species of grasshopper in terms of crop loss. In North America alone, there are more than 600 species of grasshopper. As a result, a lot of varieties and subgroups are usually referred to as "grasshoppers". There are a few species of grasshopper that are considered to be of economic importance. This means the species under this label have ideal food and weather conditions, reproduce quickly and can cause severe crop damage.

### Grasshoppers Control Methods

Understanding the amount of control needed and the proper timing of control methods for the year can be somewhat predicted if you understand how the weather effects grasshopper reproduction. Temperature, snowfall, and rainfall are very important environmental aspects that can determine the severity of infestation by grasshoppers. A warm fall will result in more female grasshoppers laying more eggs. It will also allow the embryos to develop further before the winter and colder weather settles in. Additional egg development in the fall will lead to a much earlier and more even hatch the following spring. On the other hand, a very cold fall and winter with minimal snow leads to many of the grasshopper’s eggs freezing. For some species of grasshoppers, eggs that are exposed to subzero temperatures for two days will kill up to 90% of the young. For the most part, grasshoppers tend to lay eggs in areas where snowfall is thick; this keeps the ground more insulated, thus keeping the eggs alive. Also, an extremely dry fall and spring can limit the development of the embryos in the eggs. If there is a hot spring nearby, it will stimulate the eggs to develop quickly and hatch early. Cool springs will do the opposite and slow their development down.

### Cultural Control

The best method available for controlling grasshoppers is the cultural control method, which is usually the least expensive process. They merely involve good management and good timing of normal operations that need to be done in the production of crops. A farmer is able to reduce the number of grasshoppers directly, or at least limit or stop their ability to reproduce, by simply modifying their environment at critical periods of their life cycle. The general principle of cultural methods used in controlling grasshoppers starts with early seeding of crops, good crop rotation, and tillage. 

Early seeding means that your crops should be planted as early as possible. Older plants that are more established have a much easier time withstanding grasshoppers compared to younger plants that are not as established. However, early seeding will not totally prevent or guarantee that the crops won’t be damaged, but it will reduce the severity of damage that will occur and give farmers time to apply the appropriate insecticides. Tillage, also known as chemical fallowing, helps manage the population of grasshoppers by removing the plants that young grasshoppers feed on. It is recommended to eliminate all green growth in fields in early spring before grasshoppers have hatched. If there is no food available once they have hatched, young grasshoppers will not be able to survive. 

Tillage at this time will also destroy the eggs of the grasshoppers or expose them to natural enemies such as birds. Since female grasshoppers prefer firm soil to lay their eggs in, tillage will provide an unsuitable environment for them. It is important to know that excessive tillage can be harmful to the soil by reducing its moisture levels and increasing the risk of erosion. Grasshoppers do have natural enemies who attack them in the egg, nymphal, and adult stages of their life. Predators that eat grasshoppers in the egg phase of life are bee flies, blister beetles, crickets, ground beetles, and other insects. Some adults of these insects, such as the field cricket, can destroy up to 50% of the egg population in one area. Birds, spiders, and rodents are natural enemies of nymphs and adult grasshoppers.

### Chemical Control

Chemical control is also another method that can work to reduce or eliminate grasshoppers. Be sure to carefully read the label for cautions and proper application. It is extremely important to never spray on days that are windy. Over the past few years,**diflubenzuron**, has been the preferred chemical to control grasshoppers. When diflubenzuron comes in contact with grasshoppers, it hardens the exterior of their bodies, causing them to die. The advantage of using this chemical is that it is not toxic to adult insects like birds, bees, and mammals. It is; however, toxic to immature aquatic insects. A few other pesticides that work to control grasshoppers are **carbaryl** and **malathion**. These chemicals need to be applied at very low volumes when sprayed. The downside to using these two pesticides in liquid form is that they cannot target specific areas and may injure beneficial insects. That is why carbaryl and malathion are not frequently used in large infestations but for smaller areas needing to be controlled. These chemicals are not approved to be used near any body of water.

## Recommended Pesticide
